# CS305_Software_Security

This project required me to secure a web application for Artemis Financial. Since this was a financial institution, secure communications as well as checksum validation was needed to make the application more secure for its clients. Not only did I need to write secure code, but all dependencies needed to be updated to make sure vulnerabilities were mitigated. 
	It is necessary to write secure code due to the high risk that web applications face. A single incident can cost a company millions of dollars and damage the users personally. To combat these risks, I performed manual code testing of each class in the project. I looked for issues such as data validation, proper exception handling, and enforcing rules in property mutators. By using good practices, entire risk areas, such as SQL injections, can be mitigated or eliminated entirely.
	The most challenging part of the project was to use the dependency check to scan dependencies. This was not difficult in and of itself, but analyzing the report and deciding on what steps to take were difficult. This can involve updating to newer versions, using different dependencies altogether, or even writing code to protect the dependency. For instance, if a known vulnerability on a dependency is that it does not validate a string for a maximum length, this could be accomplished before passing the argument to the dependency.
	Many initiatives were taken to increase the layers of security, these included improvements to source code, updates to dependencies, changing protocols, such as HTTP to HTTPS, and using a key store to hold encryption keys. To decide on which mitigation techniques to use, I studied the subjects and applied industry accepted solutions for each.
	To ensure that new bugs and problems were not introduced to the project, a cycle of iteration and testing was employed. Tools such as dependency checks are not meant for one-time use. Even after project deployment, these checks and testing should be performed on a periodic basis in case new vulnerabilities arise. 
	I have learned about many tools and resources that will benefit me in the future. For instance, dependency check, Spring, the key tool, and Java’s message digest class are some of the most notable. These tools are mature and have been improved over time making them a much better choice than writing this code manually. 
	If employers were to ask how my taking this course would benefit them, I would explain how my understanding of the Maven manager and my knowledge of industry standards and tools increase my ability to produce a safe and secure product while decreasing the time to develop it by using free and battle tested dependencies that are free of known vulnerabilities. 
